-- 21/12/2024
-- open the workbench, create new SQL script file
DDL commands:
 Data Definition language commands are used to create,alter or drop the data.
 i. Create: create is a command used to create database,table,view,index or trigger etc..,
   DB: create database database-name;
 run db/select db: use database-name;
   Table: Tables are used to represent the data in rows and columns. rows are called records. columns are also called fields
   create table table-name (column-name1 data_type constraint,column-name2 data_type constraint etc..,)
 ii. ALTER:  alter is used to change columns or their types or the structure of table
    ADD column:  alter table table-name add column-name datatype;
    DROP column: alter table table-name drop column column-name;
    change column type: 
              alter table table-name modify column-name new_datatype;
    renaming columns:
             alter table table-name  rename column old_name to new_name
  iii. drop: drop is used to delte whole element completely.
       table: drop table tablename;
       database:  drop database databasename
  iv. truncate: truncate is used to remove  only the data(all the rows data) but it will leave
      the   structure intact
    truncate table tablename
  v.  rename: we can rename tables/columns using rename 
   rename table students to stdnts


DML(Data manipulation language) : DML is used to manipulate the data using commands like  INSERT,UPDATE,DELETE.
i. Insert: Insert is used to insert new rows into a table
  single row: INSERT INTO TABLE-NAME values ROWS(All columns data)
  multiple rows: Insert into table-name values (one row data),(one row data) etc..,
 specific fields insertion: insert into table-name  (col1,col2.,..) values(col1_value,col2_value...,)
ii. Delete: Delete is used to remove records or rows in a table based on condition;
  delete from table-name
  where condition;
iii. update: update is used to modify existing data
update tablename
set column1=value1,column2=value2,...
where condition;








 

















